Update monitoring docs to use the in-cluster monitoring stack (#2586)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_viewing-che-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards.adoc

// monitoring-{prod-id-short}

[id="viewing-{prod-id-short}-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards"]
= Viewing {prod-short} Server from an OpenShift web console dashboard

> After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {prod-short} Server JVM metrics, the metrics can be viewed from a custom dashboard within the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer: Same suggestion as in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586#discussion_r1171550256:
```suggestion
After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {prod-short} Server JVM metrics, you can view the metrics on a custom dashboard in the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.
```

.Prerequisites

* An active `{orch-cli}` session with administrative permissions to the destination {orch-name} cluster. See {orch-cli-link}.

> * An instance of {prod-short} running in {orch-name}.

Reviewer: Same suggestion as in https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586/files#r1172315052:
```suggestion
* Your organization's instance of {prod-short} is installed and running in Red Hat OpenShift.

* An active `oc` session with administrative permissions to the destination OpenShift cluster. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/{ocp4-ver}/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html[Getting started with the CLI].
 ```

Author: Double checking, should the 
```
*```
```

on line 13 be there?

Reviewer: Apologies, that is a typo from copy-paste. Fixed.

* The in-cluster Prometheus instance is collecting metrics. See xref:collecting-che-metrics-with-prometheus[].

.Procedure

> . Create a ConfigMap in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} containing the dashboard definition and apply the necessary label. The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards, however, not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported within the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer: I suggest moving and placing the second sentence after the code block because it contains no action steps. Also, is this what you meant?
```suggestion
. Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.
```

> +

Reviewer: This is due to my next suggestion https://github.com/eclipse-che/che-docs/pull/2586/files#r1172715393:
```suggestion
```

Author: Updated in latest commit

[source,terminal,subs="+attributes,quotes"]
----
$ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server \

>   --from-literal=devspaces-server-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-che/che-server/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \

Author: There is a reference to a GitHub url in this command, do we need some kind of disclaimer for this?

Reviewer: @dkwon17, I need you to add an empty file as follows:
`modules/administration-guide/examples/snip_che-disclaimer-for-configuring-observability.adoc`

I am adding the downstream version of this file that contains the disclaimer. The upstream version of this file is empty because we don't need the disclaimer in the upstream docs.

Author: Thank you, I've made a commit to add `snip_che-disclaimer-for-configuring-observability.adoc`

  -n openshift-config-managed
$ oc label configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server console.openshift.io/dashboard=true -n openshift-config-managed

> ----

Reviewer: Here is the second sentence that I moved from before the code block. Perhaps turn it into an admonition?
```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards, yet not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported in the OpenShift web console.
```

Author: @max-cx I think the admonition is a good idea

Could we do 

```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards, not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported in the OpenShift web console.
```

instead, WDYT?

Reviewer: In that case, let's split it int two separate sentences:
```suggestion
----
+
NOTE: The dashboard definition is based on Grafana 6.x dashboards. Not all Grafana 6.x dashboard features are supported in the OpenShift web console.
```

> [source,terminal,subs="+attributes,quotes"]
> ----
> $ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server \
>   --from-literal=devspaces-server-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-che/che-server/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \
>   -n openshift-config-managed
> $ oc label configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server console.openshift.io/dashboard=true -n openshift-config-managed
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. {empty}
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server \
  --from-literal=devspaces-server-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-che/che-server/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \
  -n openshift-config-managed
----

.. {empty}
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc label configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server console.openshift.io/dashboard=true -n openshift-config-managed
----
```

.Verification steps

> . In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, navigate to *Observe* -> *Dashboards* from the sidebar menu on the left.

Reviewer: Our style guide recommends avoiding positional references in the UI like "the sidebar menu on the left", also IBM Style advises avoiding "navigate":
```suggestion
. In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, go to *Observe* -> *Dashboards*.
```

> . Select the *Dev Workspace Operator* dashboard under the *Dashboard* dropdown menu and verify that the dashboard panels contain data.

Reviewer: Does this suggestion sound correct?
```suggestion
. Go to *Dashboard* -> *Dev Workspace Operator* and verify that the dashboard panels contain data.
```

// monitoring-{prod-id-short}

[id="viewing-{prod-id-short}-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards"]
= Viewing {prod-short} Server from an OpenShift web console dashboard

After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {prod-short} Server JVM metrics, you can view the metrics on a custom dashboard in the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.

.Prerequisites

* An active `{orch-cli}` session with administrative permissions to the destination {orch-name} cluster. See {orch-cli-link}.

* An instance of {prod-short} running in {orch-name}.

* The in-cluster Prometheus instance is collecting metrics. See xref:collecting-che-metrics-with-prometheus[].

.Procedure

. Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.
+
.. {empty}
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc create configmap grafana-dashboard-devspaces-server \
  --from-literal=devspaces-server-dashboard.json="$(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-che/che-server/main/docs/grafana/openshift-console-dashboard.json)" \
  -n openshift-config-managed

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
include::example$snip_{project-context}-disclaimer-for-configuring-observability.adoc[]
```

// monitoring-{prod-id-short}

[id="viewing-{prod-id-short}-metrics-on-grafana-dashboards"]
= Viewing {prod-short} Server from an OpenShift web console dashboard

After configuring the in-cluster Prometheus instance to collect {prod-short} Server JVM metrics, you can view the metrics on a custom dashboard in the *Administrator* perspective of the OpenShift web console.

.Prerequisites

* Your organization's instance of {prod-short} is installed and running in Red Hat OpenShift.

* An active `oc` session with administrative permissions to the destination OpenShift cluster. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/{ocp4-ver}/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html[Getting started with the CLI].

* The in-cluster Prometheus instance is collecting metrics. See xref:collecting-che-metrics-with-prometheus[].

.Procedure

> . Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.

Reviewer: Looks like it's a single-step procedure, so we need an asterisk:
```suggestion
* Create a ConfigMap for the dashboard definition in the `openshift-config-managed` {orch-namespace} and apply the necessary label.
```
